Agent Lee?
Olivia Dunham.
Previously on Fringe...
What division are you in?
I am not leaving here
without some answers.
Sometimes answers...
lead to more questions.
The timeline
has been rewritten.
He was erased,
and yet traces of him
continue to bleed through.
There was a man
in the mirror!
He was here,
and then he was gone.
I saw him!
What's with the redecoration?
- Aah!
I'm here, Walter.
Right here.
Please, help me.
Walter?
You didn't answer
my question.
I asked
if you've been keeping up
with the new medication
I prescribed for you.
Yes.
For the most part.
With my own modifications,
of course.
Why?
Well, you just seem
a little bit distracted.
Well, yes...
as you ask.
You've come at an extremely
inopportune time.
I'm in the middle
of some very important work,
and I'm anxious to resume.
I appreciate that,
Walter.
But these monthly evaluations
are also important.
Well, yes, I know.
It was a condition
you imposed
on my release
from St. Claire's.
I mean personally
important.
You were under my care
there for...
most of your 17 years.
These sessions allow me
to catch up with you,
see how you're doing.
Now...
I've been perusing the latest
observational reports
from the agents
assigned to you,
and they mention certain
patterns of unusual behavior.
Well, o-occasionally, I have
a unique way of doing things
which can be misinterpret--
Tell me about the mirrors.
Mirrors?
And the television?
Virtually every reflective
surface in and around your lab
has been covered
or obscured by you.
Naturally,
I covered them up.
I-it's an experiment
I'm conducting on--
So this had nothing to do
with your lab being haunted.
Beg your pardon?
According to the report,
you claimed on more than
one occasion
to have seen a strange man
in the lab,
a man no one else has seen,
and that sometimes...
the man speaks to you.
Oh...
just minor hallucinations,
of course,
by my self-medication.
That was weeks ago.
I-I'm much better now.
So you haven't had any more
of these hallucinations since?
No.
Walter, it is important
that you be completely
honest with me
so that I can make an assessment
of your state of mind
and I can make recommendations
for your continued care...
Whatever that may be.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
You're dead, Sneddon.
You hear me?
You better run, rat!
We're gonna beat your ass!
Wait up a minute, man.
You run like
a little girl.
Keep up.
We got him now.
He went in there.
Oh, he's like so dead.
There he is.
Picked a bad place
to hide, dumb ass.
Just leave me alone, guys.
Or what?
I know it was you,
you little freak.
You got me busted
for the stash in my locker.
Come on, Matt.
Kick his ass.
You had this coming...
Uh...something
touched my leg!
It's probably
just a bug or something.
Tough it out.
Dude, what is this?
What the hell is this?
Huh?
♪ Fringe 4x03 ♪
Alone in the World
Original Air Date on October  7, 2011
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
♪
Hey.
Working a case?
Something like that.
Mm-hmm.
Hmm. I got, uh, word
you wanted to see me?
We get any news on
the shape shifter attack?
Uh, no. I just wanted
to check in with you,
see how you're handling
everything.
I know you've been going
through the case files,
getting up to speed.
I understand that it
can be kind of overwhelming.
It's hard when what you knew
or what you thought you knew
about the world...
no longer holds.
And I just wanted you
to know that I'm here.
You're...
Here?
Yeah.
To talk to, you know?
I mean, just if things
are getting a little too much
or if you're freaked out...
I'm...not freaked out.
Oh.
Good.
Okay.
Well,
you just let me know.
If I freak out, I--
yeah, you...
you'll be the first
to know.
Dunham.
We've got two bodies.
12-year-old boys.
How many months
since they've been missing?
Not months. Hours.
Somewhere between 10 and 15,
according to the reports
their families made
when they didn't
come home last night.
Agent Broyles?
Agent Farnsworth
is ready for you.
Has Dr. Bishop come up
with any theories yet
on cause of death
or the bodies' advanced
state of decomposition?
Walter, Agent Broyles
wants to know if--
Yes, yes, I heard him.
Will you tell Agent Broyles
that as there appears to be
no unusual environmental factors
to explain
the rapid deterioration,
that it is absurd for me
to make any determination
without first examining
the remainders!
Okay, Walter said he--
tell him, for all I know,
it could be viral
or a mutation of some
flesh-eating bacteria.
He thinks that--
some kind of alien parasite
or...Bigfoot.
Bigfoot!
That's it.
Astrid, perhaps
you can look around
for massive fecal droppings,
huh?
He doesn't have
any theories, sir.
I think I got something.
There's a third set
of sneaker treads leading in...
and then out.
Size 7, 8, maybe.
Then we have
a potential witness.
Or another victim.
Even if there was
another boy that got away,
he could still be infected by
whatever killed the other two.
Point taken.
We need to find him fast.
Yeah. If he's alive.
Oh!
Remarkably pungent stench.
I'm gonna...
get some scented candles.
Agent Broyles.
It was good of you
to accompany Astrid,
although unnecessary.
Agents Dunham and Lee
are tracking down the identity
of the boy who fled the scene.
I thought I'd take
the opportunity
to check in on you.
Oh...How nice.
May I ask why?
You had your evaluation
with Dr. Sumner last night.
He called me afterwards
to voice some concerns.
Concerns?
He thought you seemed
unusually agitated
by something you were
reluctant to confide.
I-I can't imagine what
gave him that impress--
Walter?
Where's the second body?
On its way to the morgue.
I assumed one was sufficient
for your examination.
Not--not sufficient
at all.
I-it's quite the opposite.
I need both bodies.
Walter. What?
What?
Did you say something?
I asked why you need
both bodies.
Because--
Walter, listen to me.
Walter, do you see me?
Only by...Comparison...
Walter, I can hear you.
Will I be able to determine...
Where are you?
If there are patterns
to the decomposition
of the tissue...
Listen...
Or the putrefaction
of the internal organs,
it may well be
that the victims
perished at
different intervals.
Dr. Bishop.
And one of them
may be a carrier!
I want to come home.
I am not losing my mind!
I would appreciate you
arranging to have
the second remains
sent here
as soon as possible.
Excuse me.
Broyles.
It's Olivia. We have a lead
on the third boy.
This morning another student
told the principal
that the two victims
had been talking about plans
to beat a kid up.
His name is Aaron Sneddon.
He's ten years old.
He said
it was pretty dark
and he didn't see much
after the boys chased him
into the tunnel.
Why didn't he tell anyone
what happened?
His parents?
Well, he has no father,
and his mother
is out of the country.
Aaron said
that she's away a lot
for work.
But the boy's mother wouldn't
leave him home by himself.
No, she has him stay
with a neighbor
in their
apartment complex.
His principal said
that he's a quiet boy,
that she doesn't know him
to have many friends.
So has Walter
gotten anywhere yet?
Beyond his random theories
of vampires and succubi, no.
He says he needs to examine
the other body.
I'd like you and Agent Lee
to retrieve it from the morgue.
I'll let Dr. Bishop
know the boy is here.
Okay.
You like to draw?
Me too.
Aaron, we're going to have
to get you checked out
to make sure
that you're okay.
Our friend, Dr. Bishop,
is going to examine you.
I don't like doctors.
They scare me.
Oh, you'll like Walter.
There's nothing scary
about him.
All right, young man.
Let's get started.
Take off your shirt
and hop on the table.
Please,
I don't want a shot.
Well, technically a shot
is depositing a substance
into the bloodstream.
This is more
a withdrawal.
Just this one time.
I promise.
There.
That wasn't so bad.
Good boy.
You can put
your shirt on now.
I'll be right back.
Please, don't touch that!
Give me...
It's all right.
I--I shouldn't
have shouted.
It--it belonged
to my son.
You have a son?
I did.
He died.
Walter.
You need to come
and take a look at this.
What is it?
It happened when
I was moving a candle.
That's curious.
Yeah.
Look at the lambda sensor.
The corpse is pulling
high levels of oxygen
out of the air.
Astrid...
I don't remember there
being this much mold
on the ribcage before.
Dear God.
The incubation case.
Quickly!
Grab the other end.
We have to contain it.
Walter.
No time to explain.
Hurry!
Spores.
I--I had assumed
that the mold
was just a symptom of
the rapid decomposition.
Walter,
I am not following.
The cause, Astrid...
I'm starting to believe
that it was
an aggressive form of fungi
that killed the boys.
Olivia and Lincoln,
they went to the morgue
to get the other body.
Astrid?
Are you at the morgue?
Yeah, we're just heading
to the elevator now--
listen, you have got
to evacuate the room.
Get the body from the tunnel
locked down.
What?
It's going to explode
and release spores!
You gonna get that?
I'm eating my lunch.
Come on, come on,
come on, come on.
Hey, Beth, come here.
Take a look at this.
Oh, God.
What are you doing?
We gotta get them
out of there.
We can't open that door.
We need to get a team in here
and lock down the area.
We can't just
leave 'em to die.
They're already dead.
Dr. Bishop.
Can you tell us what
we're dealing with here?
Clearly not
the garden variety
of cordyceps fungi.
A genetic mutation
with a capacity
of hyper-accelerated growth
and nutrition absorption,
which explains
the rapid decomposition
of the bodies.
Walter, what's
"cordyceps fungi"?
A species capable
of releasing neurotoxins
so as to paralyze a host,
usually an insect,
so that the fungi can feed
and lay its spores.
So why aren't they
attacking us?
These are not a pack
of wolves, Agent Broyles.
Size not withstanding,
they are still
a lower life form
with rudimentary instincts
probably based on
tactile response.
As long as none of you
touch them,
they won't even know
you're there.
A couple
of these bad boys
are making their way
down the sink.
Most likely seeking
more water and nutrients,
which shows
a strong impulse
to expand their reach
as far as possible.
I mean, really, this is
a most extraordinary species,
don't you think?
Admiration aside,
Dr. Bishop,
how do you recommend
killing these things?
As with a great many
molds and fungi,
a strong dose of U.V. light
or intense heat
should effectively
eradicate them.
Understood.
Agent Mace,
this is Broyles.
We're going to need
high-intensity
U.V. lamps in here,
as many as you can find.
Yes, sir. Copy that.
I'll oversee things here.
I want you and Agent Lee
to assemble a small team
and have them meet you
at the tunnel.
Based on
the boy's remains,
the fungus colony
at the tunnel
is probably much bigger
than what we have here.
I'm not convinced
that U.V. is
the most efficient way
to destroy it.
You have something else
in mind?
I'm thinking
flamethrowers.
Fortunately,
your tests show no sign
of fungal infection.
The good news
is that you're now free
to return home.
Agent Farnsworth
will drop you there.
Unless it's not good news.
Nobody's there.
Oh, yes. I understand
you're staying with a friend.
A neighbor, but she
never talks to me.
Perhaps there's someone else
with whom you can stay.
No.
I see.
Well, I certainly know
what it feels like
to have nowhere to go,
no family.
This is the only home
I know.
You live here?
Yeah.
It's not much,
I admit, but...
It's certainly better
than the mental institution
where I lived before this.
Would you like
to stay here with me
for a little while
longer?
I can't promise that
I'll have any time
for entertaining you,
understand.
I mean,
I'm a very busy man.
Mmm, mmm, mmm!
Sublime.
Dr. Bishop.
"Walter." I said you
could call me "Walter."
How did your son die?
Peter was very sick.
I tried for a long time
to find a cure...
but I found it
too late,
and he died.
Then I discovered
an alternate Universe
where another version
of my son was dying
from the same malady.
So I crossed over
to the other side
with the intention
of bringing him back
to cure him.
But the frozen lake
where I created a portal
between Universes
was unsound,
and when we crossed back,
the ice broke.
And Peter--
the other version
of him--drowned.
And I lost him
all over again.
And...you don't
think you belong
in a mental institution?
How soon till
the flood lights are up?
Almost there, ma'am.
Here's our perp.
Doesn't look
like much in here.
No wonder
we overlooked it.
Well, once
we've got lights,
we can make sure
we've taken out
the entire colony.
Watch your step.
There could be
something there.
Ready for you,
Agent Dunham.
I don't know about you,
but I'm ready for another.
Aaron, what's wrong?
It's...bright.
What?
It's too bright.
What do you see?
I need the handheld
flood over here.
There's more of it
back here.
A lot more.
What is that?
Let me take a look--
No! Get away!
What is it?
Some of it's growing down
through some grating.
Do we know what's under here?
Burn it.
Burn it all.
Astrid! Help me!
Aaron, you need
to talk to me.
You need to tell me
what's wrong.
Walter, he has
a high-grade fever.
How'd this happen?
I don't know.
He was complaining about
something being too bright,
and then he got scared,
and then he just
started burning--
Walter?
Stop what you're doing.
Say it again.
I said stop it!
You're killing the boy.
Just a few more minutes.
I don't want to turn you
into a popsicle.
Oh, Astrid--
I'll get you one
later, Walter.
Oh. Grape,
please.
And one for
my friend here.
You just rest there.
Olivia.
We've managed to bring
his temperature down
a couple of degrees,
but it remains
dangerously high.
And you're positive
that Aaron was affected
by the fungus
in the tunnel?
His collapse
and fever coincided
precisely as you were,
uh, burning the colony.
I am certain there
was a connection.
Okay, what about the fungus
at the morgue?
Broyles and his team
destroyed that.
Why wasn't Aaron
affected then?
Well, that I cannot
explain as of yet.
So the boy is feeling
whatever this thing
inside the tunnel
is feeling.
Precisely.
Okay, whatever it is,
it's dangerous,
and we need
to destroy it.
So how do we break
the connection
between it
and the boy?
I'm not sure,
but perhaps the best way
to determine that
is to learn
how the connection was formed
in the first place.
Okay, well, I think I may
have an idea about that.
Aaron,
let's have a talk.
About what?
About why you lied
to us.
Your drawings, Aaron.
Agent Dunham found them
covering the wall
inside the tunnel.
You never mentioned
you'd been there
before yesterday.
Based on the size
of your artwork,
I'd say you
go there a lot.
It, um...
It's hard to explain.
I would go there
sometimes.
To get away.
And after a while,
I would...
start to feel better,
like I wasn't alone,
that there was
something there
that was sad
whenever I was sad.
Or...
I know it sounds stupid.
Perhaps not.
You're saying you thought
there was something there
that felt as you felt.
I mean, I guess I thought
I was just imagining it.
Maybe I was crazy.
But it was like
it understood me,
like it wanted
to protect--
protect you.
Aaron, the boys who
were chasing you...
You intentionally
led them there, didn't you?
It told you to bring them
back to the tunnel.
I didn't know what
was gonna happen,
I swear.
I didn't know
what it was!
It's all right, son.
Shh...
I believe you did
nothing wrong.
Walter...
What was that
all about?
I don't understand.
I think I'm beginning to.
I need Agent Dunham.
My initial hypothesis
was entirely wrong.
These are not colonies
of fungi.
I now believe that--
that this is
a single organism,
one with rapidly evolving
communication skills,
enabling it to form
a psychic bond
with the boy.
You see these?
I believe that each of these
fungal masses
is the equivalent
to a neuron,
a brain cell,
and these tendrils
are linking them together,
essentially dendrites
and synapses.
The organism
is a vast neural network.
Wait, you're telling me
that this whole thing,
all of it,
is one big giant brain?
That's exactly
what I'm saying.
Agent Lee,
Gus is a growing,
evolving mind.
"Gus"?
Well, I thought that since
it's a single living entity
that perhaps
we should name it
for the sake of clarity.
Okay, so the reason
that Aaron wasn't affected
when we destroyed
the fungi in the morgue--
was because the colony
growing there
was unable to connect
to the network,
and until it could,
it was a mindless appendage.
That's why it was
heading down the drain--
to try and connect
with Gus.
Yeah. What you need
to understand is that
Gus can only
make more of itself.
And as it grows,
it becomes more intelligent,
more self-aware,
and ever more conscious
of how alone
in the world it is.
And my contention
is that Gus
forged a link
with Aaron
over this shared sense
of isolation.
Until I can find a way
to break the link
with the boy,
any assault
on the organism
will hurt him.
Or worse.
It's Broyles.
Sir, we have new information
about the fungus.
So have I.
There's been
another attack--
a homeless man camped out
in an alley in Roxbury Crossing.
Looks like the fungus
came up through some grating.
Roxbury? That's six miles
from the tunnel.
I know.
After Agent Lee's report
on the growths in the tunnel,
I found that
the Boston sewer line
runs directly
underneath that area.
We have a major infestation
on our hands.
We need
to eradicate this thing,
and we need to do it now.
Agent Broyles, uh,
this is Walter Bishop.
I--I don't think
you--you--you understand
that I haven't yet
discovered a way
to break the link between
the organism and the boy.
I--I need more time.
I do understand, doctor.
Believe me.
But the longer we wait,
the more likely
other innocent people
will be killed.
It's just that
you are not hearing me.
I suggest you keep trying
with whatever time--
he'll die!
Do you hear me?
You're going
to kill Peter!
Aaron.
Walter,
you mean "Aaron."
What did I say?
You've got two hours,
Dr. Bishop.
After that or if there
are any more attacks,
I can't make any promises.
Astrid, we need
to reconfigure
the neurostimulator
for magnetic resonance!
We need to chart
Aaron's brain activity.
Agent Dunham,
you and Agent Lee,
be ready to move out.
Yes, sir.
Flamethrowers aren't
going to be enough.
We're gonna need
some help.
I've got recon team
throughout the city,
spread out over
an eight-mile radius.
So far we've determined
the fungus has encroached on
at least a dozen
populated buildings,
all of which
have been evacuated.
But no other bodies
have been found.
Thankfully, no.
It's been well
over an hour.
How's Dr. Bishop doing
with the boy?
We haven't gotten
any word yet.
Agent Broyles, if you
don't mind my asking,
what exactly is our plan
to kill Gus?
That's what Walter's
calling the organism.
That's our plan,
Agent Lee,
compliments of Nina Sharp
and Massive Dynamic.
You two, along with one
of their techs,
will be administering
a potent toxin to the fungus.
Agent Broyles,
recon six is on the line.
I'm gonna check in
with Walter.
Walter.
It's Olivia.
Olivia, we've managed
to isolate Gus' brain wave.
The link appears
to be centered somewhere
inside of Aaron's
pre-frontal lobe.
Okay, so you know
how to disconnect it.
Oh, no.
No, I haven't quite
worked that out yet.
Okay, Walter, we're
running out of time.
I realize that.
My attempts to shut down
that part of his brain
haven't worked!
There's only one
other possible option.
Surgically remove
the infected part.
What are you saying?
You're thinking
of lobotomizing him?
I don't know
what else to do
in the time
I have left, Olivia.
Walter, you can't!
I have to save
his life.
Whatever it takes.
Okay, Walter,
listen to me.
Now, you're gonna
find another way,
and I'm gonna talk
to Broyles,
explain
the situation to him,
and see if
I can buy us some time.
Stand by.
Sir.
I just got word
from one of our teams.
The fungus has reached
a subway platform in Midtown.
We can't contain this thing.
We have to move on it now.
You gave Walter two hours.
There's still time--
I'm sorry, but you know
as well as I do
we can't sacrifice
countless other lives
to save one boy.
Walter...
What?
No time to talk.
I have to think.
So what are we
looking for?
Somewhere the toxin will be
best distributed.
Some sort of
central mass.
There.
Agent Broyles,
we've located
the injection point.
The tech is preparing
the toxin.
That. Keep me apprised.
I was told
it was on your order.
Olivia...
Okay.
No!
Walter,
his blood pressure
is falling,
and he has lost
consciousness.
Do something!
I've run through every
conceivable scenario
I can think of.
That creature has
a hold on his brain,
and I have no ide--
wait. Wait!
What's happening in there?
The toxin's been administered,
but the technician is dead.
I want you and Agent Lee
to fall back
to position one now!
Yes, sir.
Olivia.
Lincoln, what?
I can't move.
What?
The source of Aaron's
physical distress
isn't isolated
in the pre-frontal lobe,
as I thought.
- It's also here.
- What is that?
It's the limbic system.
Limbic!
The emotional center
of the brain.
Emotion...
Yes.
Astrid, get me
the epinephrine.
The fungus has a hold
on Agent Lee.
He requires
immediate medical help.
We're assembling a team now.
Does the fungicide
appear to be working?
Negative.
The organism's
still alive.
I don't know why,
but it's not working.
The link is emotional.
Gus doesn't have
a hold on him.
He has a hold on it.
I'm sorry, son.
Aaron! Aaron!
Listen to me!
Good boy, good boy.
I know you're scared,
but you need to let go
of the organism.
No...It's my friend.
No.
I'll be alone.
I know you've come to believe
that it's your friend,
but it's not real.
It's something that's
invaded your mind.
It's hurting you.
Nobody cares.
It doesn't matter.
Walter, his blood pressure
is still falling.
His organs
are shutting down.
You matter to me.
I care, and I...
And I don't want
to lose you.
I can't lose you.
Not again.
Aaron...
I know how hard it is
to make connections.
I know what it is
to be lonely.
It takes courage
to be the one
to take
someone else's hand,
to trust that
they won't leave you.
I won't leave you,
Aaron.
And I'm begging you
not to leave me.
Please.
Let it go.
Let it go, son.
Walter...
I think it's working.
He's stabilizing.
This is Dunham.
Uh, something's happening.
Their brain waves
have separated.
Uh...It's gone.
Gus is gone.
It's working!
The organism's dying.
Okay...
We need a medical team
down here now!
Lincoln,
can you hear me?
It's okay.
You're gonna be fine.
Hey.
You look
a little freaked out.
You wanna talk
about it?
Here.
You take him.
No, he's yours.
He'd be better off
with you.
Toys are meant
to be played with.
Yeah, I've seen the movie
with the talking toys.
Oddly disturbing.
Okay, Aaron,
we gotta get you
to the hospital,
or they're gonna
give your room away
to somebody
who's really sick.
Aren't you coming too?
Well, I very much
wish I could...
but I have things
I need to do.
We'll see each other
again soon, I promise.
Walter?
Astrid told me the good news
about Aaron.
I knew you'd figure...
Walter?
It's all right.
The area
is completely numb.
I--I know exactly
what I'm doing.
Just let me do this.
Just gonna put
the hammer down.
Walter...
What the hell
were you thinking?
I don't want
to be recommitted.
I can't go back there.
Please don't
send me back.
What are you
talking about?
I'm going insane.
I've been having
hallucinations.
No matter what I do,
they won't stop.
- What kind of hallucinations, Walter?
- For weeks now.
I was afraid
to tell anyone.
What are you seeing?
It doesn't matter.
Just tell me.
A person.
A young man.
His voice is in my head,
saying peculiar things.
Does he look like this?
Where did you get this?
I drew it from memory.
I've been seeing him
in my dreams
for the past three weeks.
And all this time...
I thought
I was losing my mind,
that he was a figment
of my psychosis.
I'm perfectly sane!
Here.
Who is he?
I don't know.
I've been running
facial recognition
through interagency databases,
including Interpol,
but nothing's shown up.
A shared vision
like this...
He must be real!
And if he's real...
We have to find him.
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org